{{Episode Box
| #                 = 1
| Translation       = I'm Luffy! The Man Who Will Become the Pirate King!
| Kanji             = 俺はルフィ！海賊王になる男だ！
| Romaji            = Ore wa Rufi! Kaizoku Ō ni naru Otoko da!
| Airdate_RM        = April 7, 2012
| EnglishOdex       = Luffy, the Future King of Pirates
| English           = I'm Luffy! The Man Who's Gonna Be King of the Pirates!
| Airdate_Funi      = May 27, 2008 (DVD); October 2, 2012 (Neon Alley)
| English4          = I’m Gonna Be King of the Pirates!
| Airdate_4         = September 18, 2004
| 4number           = 1
| Screen            = {{武上純希}}
| Art               = {{吉田智子}}
| Ad                = {{久田和也}}
| Ed                = {{宇田鋼之介}}
| eyecatcher        = [[Monkey D. Luffy|Luffy]] - Luffy
| rating            = 12.4 - Original
4.1 - Remastered
| rank              = 6 - Original
10 - Remastered
| charDebut         = [[Gol D. Roger]], [[Shiro (Sailor)|Shiro]], [[Tomeo]], [[Nami]], [[Alvida]], [[Koby]], [[Heppoko]], [[Peppoko]], [[Poppoko]], [[Monkey D. Luffy]], [[Roronoa Zoro]]
| locationDebut     = [[Shells Town]]
| techDebut         = Luffy: [[Gomu Gomu no Mi/Techniques#Pre-Timeskip Attacks|Gomu Gomu no Rocket]], [[Gomu Gomu no Mi/Techniques#Pre-Timeskip Attacks|Gomu Gomu no Pistol]]
| devilfruitDebut   = [[Gomu Gomu no Mi]]
}}

'''"I'm Luffy! The Man Who Will Become the Pirate King!"''' is the 1st episode of the [[One Piece (Anime)|''One Piece'' anime]].

==Short Summary==
[[Monkey D. Luffy|Luffy]] is found floating at sea by a [[Lady Mary|cruise ship]]. After repelling an invasion by the [[Alvida Pirates]], he meets a new ally, their chore boy [[Koby]].

==Long Summary==
[[Monkey D. Luffy|Luffy]] is cast at sea in a barrel. Sailors on a passing [[Lady Mary|cruise ship]] retrieve the barrel, but the ship is attacked with cannon fire by a nearby pirate ship, led by [[Alvida]]. The barrel is sent rolling into the kitchen. Once the cruise ship's sails have been destroyed, the [[Alvida Pirates]] board the ship to plunder its goods, and Alvida also forces one of her chore boys, [[Koby]], to board the ship. Meanwhile, a [[Nami|girl]] takes advantage of the opportunity and sneaks aboard the [[Miss Love Duck|Alvida Pirates' ship]] to steal its [[treasure]]s.

Koby and other [[pirate]]s notice the barrel in the kitchen and find [[Monkey D. Luffy|Luffy]] inside, who was sleeping. After Luffy defeats the hostile pirates, he goes with Koby to the pantry to eat the stored [[Foods|food]]. Luffy explains that he set sail to begin his pirating career, but his dinghy was destroyed by a [[Sea Currents#Whirlpools|whirlpool]] and he was left trapped at [[Blue Sea|sea]] in a barrel. Koby explains that he was riding on a rowboat, but was kidnapped by the Alvida Pirates and forced to become a chore boy. He explains his desires to escape the Alvida Pirates some day and join the [[Marines]].

Alvida is informed of Luffy's presence, and, out of suspicion that he could be a [[Bounty Hunter|bounty hunter]], confronts him and Koby in the pantry. This triggers a battle on the ship, but Luffy defeats the pirates. Although Alvida is armed with a large spiked club, her attacks are rendered ineffective, as Luffy ate a [[Devil Fruit]], granting him a superhuman ability that gives his body [[Gomu Gomu no Mi|rubber-like properties]]. Using a ''Gomu Gomu no Pistol'' attack, Luffy defeats Alvida, sending her flying off the ship and into the sea.

Having concluded the battle, Luffy boards a dinghy with Koby to continue 